[API] Add README for api module (#5826)
aces/Loris: modules/api/README.md

# API

## Purpose

The api module is intended to provide a stable, versioned REST interface
for interacting with the core LORIS functionality without requiring backend
SQL access.

## Intended Users

The module has 2 intended users:
1. Users (or creators) of LORIS data that are external to the LORIS core
   software that must extract or import data from LORIS.

> 2. Internal LORIS modules

Reviewer: Point two is missing period.

> 2. Internal LORIS modules

Reviewer 2: This should be under Interactions with Loris. or can you clarify why modules are users?

## Scope

The API only provides information about concepts that are cross-module
or data that is of general concern to users. 

NOT in scope:

- Data and functionality that is specific to a single module, and not of general
  nature.

> - A graphical frontend

Reviewer: Missing period if consistency.

## Permissions

> ????

Author: I could use some help with this part from anyone who knows the current state of it.

Reviewer: @driusan maybe it should be stated that a login session needs to be  retrieved before accessing other API requests? @xlecours

Author: I was thinking I needed help with permissions which affect what data can be accessed, but that's a good point, I'll add that too.

## Configurations

useEDC - This configuration setting determines whether the EDC is returned
  or required for creating/retrieving candidates with the API.

> 

Reviewer 2: Projects... this is under the Config module, so should get mentioned, non?

Author: They don't affect the API that I could tell from grepping the code for `getSetting`, the `useEDC` config variable changes the format of what's returned or required by certain endpoints (as described in the API documentation, which should probably be moved under this module in a separate pull request.)

Author: I've added a sentence to clarify a little

## Interactions with LORIS

> ???

Author: Same here

Reviewer: @driusan we could list the current API interactions with LORIS.
Such as candidates, login, projects, and update this when new API gets added. thoughts? @xlecours

Author: Yes, that's what I was thinking.. I just don't know the current extent of which modules affect where the data is coming from.

Reviewer 2: i think modules are not "users" but should go here, as a general mention.

Author: The API module is different than other modules in that it's intended to be an API, as such I think modules are (or, at least, should be) users of the API.

# API

## Purpose

> The api module is intended to provide a stable, versioned REST interface

Author: I don't understand.. it's already written api?

> The api module is intended to provide a stable, versioned REST interface

Reviewer 2: for consistency, as @cmadjar pointed out
```suggestion
The API module is intended to provide a stable, versioned REST interface
```

> The api module is intended to provide a stable, versioned REST interface

Reviewer 3: possibly that in line 1, `API` is used while in line 5, it is `api`. Have a constant way to write it across the files (every files in LORIS).
As it is an abbreviation, it should be `API`.

> The api module is intended to provide a stable, versioned REST interface

Reviewer 4: hahaha, I meant either mark `api` in code format or if not in code format, write it in capital letter however, not a blocker.

> The api module is intended to provide a stable, versioned REST interface

Author: I had written it lowercase because I thought all the README's started "The xxx module" where xxx is the lower case directory name, but I just checked a couple randomly and it seems to be very inconsistent, so I'll capitalize it since it looks better.

for interacting with the core LORIS functionality without requiring backend

> SQL access.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
database access.
```

## Intended Users

The module has 2 intended use cases:

> 1. Users (or creators) of LORIS data that are external to the LORIS core

Reviewer 2: To capture the abstraction a bit better, I'm suggesting: 
```suggestion
1. Interactions with LORIS data coming from outside the LORIS core
```

>    software that must extract or import data from LORIS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   software that extract or import data from LORIS.
```

> 2. Internal LORIS modules which retrieve data from the API.

Author: I think the imaging pipeline falls under the first use case

> 2. Internal LORIS modules which retrieve data from the API.

Reviewer 4: indeed. Not a blocker for this PR to be merged :)

## Scope

> The API only provides information about concepts that are cross-module

Reviewer 2: concepts?  how about instead: entity/object?

Reviewer 3: Yes, concepts is vague. Would also suggest `entity or object` instead of using a slash for readability.

> or data that is of general concern to users. 

Reviewer 2: what does `general concern` actually mean-- that the super-technical metadata is not available?  
It would be nice to state this more clearly as "all/most data visible in the web front-end is accessible via API"

Author: It means it's a cross module concern that multiple people would be interested in, not something added because a single module needs it. It's a little vague because it's not very well defined what should be in the API and what should be in a module at the moment

NOT in scope:

> - Data and functionality that is specific to a single module, and not of general

Reviewer 2: Does this include QC?  Dicoms?

  nature.
- A graphical frontend for interacting with the API.

## Permissions

The `api` module is a public module so that the `login` endpoint can be accessed,
but otherwise all requests require a token (retrieved from the `login` endpoint)

> or the user accessing the API to be logged in to LORIS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for the user accessing the API to be logged in to LORIS.
```

Reviewer 3: Could add that the user need to be logged in via `the web interface` as the concept of being `logged in` can be vague.

Author: "or" was correct. You either need a login token from the API without being logged in *or* you need to be logged in to loris as a regular user.

The following permissions affect accessing data from the API:

> ????

Reviewer 4: Imaging permissions affect how you can access the imaging data via the API (will be the same for electrophysiology data). Don't know about the rest. I guess there is site and project permission? @xlecours ?

Author: That doesn't seem to be the case. I did a grep for "hasPermission" and the only call to the function in the API looks like the data_entry for the candidates endpoint.

## Configurations

> The following configuration settings affect the format of data returned from

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following Configuration module settings affect the format of data returned from
```

the API:

> useEDC - This configuration setting determines whether the EDC is returned

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* useEDC : determines whether the EDC is returned (Estimated Date of Confinement, or birth Due Date)
```

>   or required for creating/retrieving candidates with the API.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  or required for creating or retrieving candidates with the API.
```
as per latest document style format.

## Interactions with LORIS

> - A token retrieved from the login endpoint bypasses the normal cookie based

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A token retrieved from the login endpoint bypasses the normal cookie-based
```

>   authentication of LORIS when provided in as "Authorization" bearer token. See

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  authentication of LORIS when provided in an "Authorization" bearer token. See
```
